[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the culture, you
can feel a certain fear.
And that fear leads people
to take certain actions.
It leads them in part to become
more hedonistic, like it's all
going to go up anyway.
So I'm going to get what
I can while I can get it.
It leads people
to get very rigid
in trying to hold on to their
little piece of the rock,
getting much more caught
in the polarity, say,
of good and evil,
of if I am good
and if I create these boundaries
and if I protect them,
then somehow all this will be
all right, even though there
is chaos right outside my
door, right where I am,
I will be safe if
I'm good enough
and if I represent those forces.
And the evil they see as
external to themselves.
And part of what we're
doing collaboratively
is exploring what
has happened to us
and who we are in this
melodramatic panoply of events,
what has all of our work on
our consciousness been about,
and what are the relationships
of worldly power to what
might be called spiritual power,
and what has happened to get us
to this particular moment?
And is this moment
any more dramatic
than the plague's Middle Ages?
Has technology led
us into a cul-de-sac
or is technology the
vehicle for our liberation?
Is technology
something to be feared?
Or is it the stepchild of
our intellect, that we merely
must know how to
use it as a servant,
and not be master plan?
And that if you look at
the world at this moment,
it appears that even
though there is more
juice in paranoia, and
negativity in television,
and the media have changed
the meaning of time and space,
it's changed the
nature of the reality,
our collective reality;
transportation the mobility
that we can jump in cars
and-- or plans and ships,
and go be here and there.
I can have lived in
Europe, and in Japan,
and in Australia, and Mexico.
And I think nothing of it.
I mean, it's just part of
my zeitgeist, my worldview.
And that when I
lived in cultures
that are extremely
different from my own,
it's changed the ethnocentricity
of my perceptions.
It's changed and the way
in which I view the world.
I mean, living up in a
little village in India,
where I lived with people
who have one suit of clothes,
and who make maybe a
dollar a day, and eat
the same food each
day, simple foods that
are indigenous to the area.
And in the villages, very
often the electricity
it either doesn't
exist or is out.
And there there's no television
and the radio crackles.
And it's a waste if
you try to listen.
And people don't live as
old as they live here,
except for a few.
There's more infant mortality.
And yet, when I am
with those people
I feel that in
that little village
there is more contentment,
more harmonious
being with the
universe, more presence
than I feel among my affluent
colleagues and brothers
and sisters in the West.
And I've had that
direct experience.
And how does that
temper the values
that I grew up with that
said more is better?
I was led to believe that
if I had more, and more,
and more largesse,
worldly largesse, somehow
I would be happier.
And part of that transition
is that in the television,
we can look at our hero
figures of this culture, all
of our mythic
people who made it,
who got what the
society had to offer.
Even with all the
pancake makeup,
the television doesn't--
it doesn't hide it all.
You can almost feel a palpable
quality of suffering, fear
and suffering.
All of these things, from
the scenario of the New Age,
can be seen as what is burning
out a certain set of values,
and attitudes, and
perceptions on our part,
that are making us
ripe for the rebirth.
And that that
rebirth of definition
of ourself, of what we're
doing in the universe,
that rebirth is what changes
the whole dance around.
And that all of the stuff
that is so scary to us
is merely a creation of
mind because obviously this
is a conspiracy of mind.
And we are just dwelling
in a state of mind.
That's it.
And that mind manifests in
this action or that action.
[MUSIC PLAYING]